# Latexify Math: Mathematical Formula Markup Revision to Assist Collaborative Editing in Math Q&A Sites
Collaborative editing questions and answers plays an important role in quality control of Mathematics StackExchange which is a math Q&A Site. Our study of post edits in Mathematics Stack Exchange shows thatthere is a large number of math-related edits about latexifying formulas, revising LaTeX and convertingthe blurred math formula screenshots to LaTeX sequence. Despite its importance, manually editing onemath-related post especially those with complex mathematical formulas is time-consuming and error-proneeven for experienced users. To assist post owners and editors to do this editing, we have developed an edit-assistance tool,MathLatexEditfor formula latexification, LaTeX revision and screenshot transcription. Weformulate this formula editing task as a translation problem, in which an original post is translated to a revisedpost.MathLatexEditimplements a deep learning based approach including two encoder-decoder models fortextual and visual LaTeX edit recommendation with math-specific inference. The two models are trained onlarge-scale historical original-edited post pairs and synthesized screenshot-formula pairs. Our evaluation of MathLatexEditnot only demonstrates the accuracy of our model, but also the usefulness ofMathLatexEditin editing real-world posts which are accepted in Mathematics Stack Exchange.

## Details

As the foundation of science and engineering, mathematics has always been one of the most important subjects for students [27] among all levels of education. It can help reshape the students’reasoning, creativity, critical thinking and problem-solving abilities. On the other hand, mathematics is also one of the most challenging subjects for students [17,27,33]. Various mathematics communityQuestion and Answer (Q&A) sites have been developed. They provide a platform for students to ask about anything related to the mathematics with fast feedback from peers and experts. Mathematics Stack Exchange [7] is an example of such a Q&A site for people studying mathematics at any level and for professionals in related fields. Since its launch in 2010, it contains 1.3 million questions and 1.7 million answers from 661 thousand users [6]. To demonstrate our task, we first show some examples to illustrate what is the fundamental limitations in existing design sharing platforms.

However, the dramatic growth of posts and users on such Q&A sites poses a severe challenge to the quality assurance for site content. For example, some novice users may post questions and answers with grammar errors, misuse of abbreviations, blurred screenshots of formulas, and the lack of important information (e.g., context or referenced resources) for understanding questions and answers. Such quality deterioration can negatively influence the readability and understandability of posts, and may further discourage the participation of users [31]. To avoid the quality decay of the sites, Q&A sites like Mathematics Stack Exchange provide official recommendations for effective question writing [3] and answer writing [2].

Although all users are encouraged to follow the quality assurance policies, many users may still violate them carelessly or unintentionally, and some users may not even be aware of the existence of such policies. To ensure the site quality [32], Mathematics Stack Exchange encourages users,especially experienced users [8], to collaboratively edit the posts to make them comply with the site quality standards. According to our analysis in Section 3, among 2,886,174 posts including questions and answers (as of Mar 2020), 1,318,753 (45.69%) of them have been edited at least once. Post edits involve not only minor corrections of misspellings and grammar errors, but also math-related such as formatting math formula for better readability, fixing mathematical mistakes.Although collaborative editing is beneficial for the community [30], there are still three problems with such mechanism. First, it requires significant community effort, especially from high-reputation users to edit the posts directly and/or approve the edits by the other users. Second, some errors in the original posts, especially relatively complicated ones such as math formula errors or format are difficult to spot, as they may require a good understanding of the question or answer content. Third, all these collaborative edits are reactive to existing errors which may have already harmed the readers of the posts before edits, or made it difficult for those who want to help to answer the questions.
